Understanding how and when the Mobile SDK 2.0 (SSC-only) throws
exceptions is important when building high-quality applications.

This topic outlines some of the typical errors in the Mobile SDK 2.0
(SSC-only) and their causes:

-   [Request construction errors](#request-construction-errors)

-   [Request execution errors](#request-execution-errors)

## Request construction errors

When you create a request, if you get a validation error, the Sitecore
Services Client API request will not be constructed and you cannot
execute it.

The most common causes of request validation errors are:

-   Passing an unexpected null parameter causes *ArgumentNullException*.

-   Passing invalid structures, empty strings, or strings that do not
    contain anything except whitespace characters causes
    *ArgumentException*.

-   Setting a write-once parameter for the second time causes
    *InvalidOperationException*.

These exceptions are not wrapped and have no inner exceptions to
inspect.

## Request execution errors

In the SSC SDK, the messages generated by the .NET framework are grouped
according to the request processing flow, which helps you create
informative alert messages and provides the necessary debugging
information.

The SDK provides the following set of predefined exceptions:

-   *ProcessUserRequestException* – unable to build an HTTP request from
    the user’s request.

-   *LoadDataFromNetworkException* – TCP or HTTP protocol physical
    connection errors.

-   *ParserException* – unable to handle server response properly.

-   *SSCJsonErrorException* – a valid error response returned by
    the server.

The SitecoreMobileSdkException class is a common base class of all the
exceptions.

The following sample highlights the exceptions that your application
should handle and shows how to order them correctly:

try

{

var request = ItemSSCRequestBuilder.ReadItemsRequestWithPath(path)

.AddFieldsToRead(this.fieldNameTextField.Text)

.Build();

ScItemsResponse response = await session.ReadItemAsync(request);

// Process response

}

catch(**ProcessUserRequestException**)

{

// HTTP request construction failed

}

catch(**LoadDataFromNetworkException**)

{

// Connection error

}

catch(**ParserException**)

{

// Server response is not valid

}

catch(**SSCJsonErrorException**)

{

// Server has returned a valid response that contains an error

}

catch(**SitecoreMobileSdkException**)

{

// Some Item ItemService API response processing error has occurred.

// This code should not be reached in this example.

}

catch(**Exception**)

{

// Some exception has been thrown.

<span id="__DdeLink__1665_935313344" class="anchor"></span>// This code
should not be reached in this example.

}

You can access the original error object in the Exception.InnerException
property, and the error stack trace in the Exception.StackTrace
property.

try

{

var request = ItemSSCRequestBuilder.ReadItemsRequestWithPath(path)

.AddFieldsToRead(this.fieldNameTextField.Text)

.Build();

ScItemsResponse response = await session.ReadItemAsync(request);

// Process response

}

catch(**SitecoreMobileSdkException** ex)

{

this.MyErrorProcessor.ShowAlertForSitecoreMobileSdkError(ex);

}

catch(**Exception** ex)

{

this.MyErrorProcessor.ShowAlertForUnexpectedError(ex);

}

To avoid having redundant code, you should catch only
SitecoreMobileSdkException and handle it in a separate class using the
Type.Equals() method.

try

{

var request = ItemSSCRequestBuilder.ReadItemsRequestWithPath(path)

.AddFieldsToRead(this.fieldNameTextField.Text)

.Build();

ScItemsResponse response = await session.ReadItemAsync(request);

// Process response

}

catch(**SitecoreMobileSdkException** ex)

{

this.MyErrorProcessor.ShowAlertForSitecoreMobileSdkError(ex);

}

catch(**Exception** ex)

{

this.MyErrorProcessor.ShowAlertForUnexpectedError(ex);

}

Note

The Mobile SDK 2.0 (SSC-only) does not provide error classes that show
alerts because they may vary depending on the target platform and may
require customization.
